Mailing List
================

There are several Wget-related mailing lists.  The general discussion
list is at <wget@sunsite.dk>.  It is the preferred place for support
requests and suggestions, as well as for discussion of development.
You are invited to subscribe.

   To subscribe, simply send mail to <wget-subscribe@sunsite.dk> and
follow the instructions.  Unsubscribe by mailing to
<wget-unsubscribe@sunsite.dk>.  The mailing list is archived at
`http://www.mail-archive.com/wget%40sunsite.dk/' and at
`http://news.gmane.org/gmane.comp.web.wget.general'.

   Another mailing list is at <wget-patches@sunsite.dk>, and is used to
submit patches for review by Wget developers.  A "patch" is a textual
representation of change to source code, readable by both humans and
programs.  The file `PATCHES' that comes with Wget covers the creation
and submitting of patches in detail.  Please don't send general
suggestions or bug reports to `wget-patches'; use it only for patch
submissions.

   Subscription is the same as above for <wget@sunsite.dk>, except that
you send to <wget-patches-subscribe@sunsite.dk>, instead.  The mailing
list is archived at `http://news.gmane.org/gmane.comp.web.wget.patches'.

   Finally, there is the <wget-notify@addictivecode.org> mailing list.
This is a non-discussion list that receives commit notifications from
the source repository, and also bug report-change notifications.  This
is the highest-traffic list for Wget, and is recommended only for
people who are seriously interested in ongoing Wget development.
Subscription is through the `mailman' interface at
`http://addictivecode.org/mailman/listinfo/wget-notify'.
