================
General Overview
================

Jobs
====

The fundamental object in Toucan is the job. Jobs are what tell Toucan 
which actions to perform and there are currently three supported job 
types, sync, backup and secure. Jobs can either be run in the graphical 
user interface (GUI) or on the command line. Jobs can also be associated 
with a set of Rules (see below). Jobs can either be 'saved' or 
'unsaved', once saved they are given a name and can then be reloaded 
after restarting Toucan or run quickly from the command line. 

Drag and Drop
=============

Drag and drop is supported throughout Toucan. In any area that expects a 
file or folder path, such as the file lists and the text parts of the 
file and folder selectors supports items being dragged onto them from 
other programs, such as file explorers. If you drag multiple files and 
folders to a location that only supports one then the first item you 
selected will be used, if it is an area where multiple files and folders 
are supported then they will all be added. 

Exclusion Menus
===============

Once you have selected a set of Rules in either the Sync, Backup or 
Secure you can then right click on any of the files or folders in a file 
list and easily exclude them. The options available on the menu are: 


*  Exclude by extension

*  Exclude by name

*  Include by extension

*  Include by name


Standard Job / Name Area
========================

    .. figure:: /images/jobarea.png
       :align: center
       :alt: Job Area

Most of the tabs in Toucan feature this standard area in their top-left. 
The drop down box shows any existing jobs or variables / rules / scripts 
and selecting one will load it. The first button is the save button, if 
you already have a name / job selected in the drop down then it will be 
saved. If you do not them you will be prompted to enter a new name. The 
next button is the add button. When clicked if you are currently working 
on a job you will be asked if you which to save it. Either way you will 
be asked to enter the name for your new job, starting a new job clears 
everything currently entered on the tab you are working on. The final 
button is the remove button, it deletes the job / variable / rule set / 
script you are working on and clears the current tab. 

Standard Rules Area
===================

    .. figure:: /images/rulesarea.png
       :align: center
       :alt: Rules Area

The Sync, Backup and Secure tabs in Toucan all have a drop down box in 
the top left labeled Rules. In this box you will find a list of all of 
the sets of Rules you currently have. In Backup and Secure selecting one 
of the sets will cause any files and folders you have selected to 
immediately be coloured based on whether they will be included or not. 
In the Sync tab the Preview button must be used. 

Tooltips
========

Throughout Toucan tooltips are alaiviable on all buttons that do not 
have their own text to help explain them. These toolitps can be turned 
off if required in the settings tab. The Sync preview panes also have a 
tooltip when you hover over a file or folder which gives a short 
description of the operation that Toucan plans to perform. 
